First off, thank you all for sticking with the project this long through it's rough patches! As the project has went through a change of ownership last year, there have been many areas that have suffered but it is my goal to turn those problems around and get the project back on a healthy and productive path into the future.

With that being said, there is many areas that still need improvement including the quality of contributions and information tracking. For this reason, this release will not provide the most accurate documentation to all of the changes included in the release, but I will do my best to highlight the most notable that I'm aware of.

### Enhancements
- The user interface has been updated to the latest AdminLTE release of 3.2.0.
- The Font Awesome library has been upgraded to the latest 6.3.0 release which overrides the 5.15.4 dependency built in to AdminLTE 3.2.0.
- The user interface has been updated to better support multiple screen sizes included smartphones and tablets. While this is still a work in progress, you will find that **most** views now work quite well in various screen formats.
- The nomenclature for DNS zones have been updated to utilize the appropriate terminology of "zone" instead of "domain" where the latter is slang. This is a work in progress so there may still be some places that use the old "domain" terminology.
- The nomenclature for history / action auditing has been updated to use "activity" instead of "history." This is a work in progress so not all references may have been updated yet.
- The authentication settings management views have been updated to be more uniform with some amount of field documentation included. This is also still a work in progress as some views still lack useful documentation.
- Performance improvements have been made to the zone record list view so that large data sets don't suffer as much from use of poor coding techniques.
- The statistics and recent activity blocks have been removed from the dashboard to provide greater performance enhancements. It was determined that these features weren't truly useful in practice which was the ultimate driver for their removal.
- API activity auditing has been updated to provide per-record change log entries.
- The user interface has been updated to use the SITE_NAME setting in more appropriate places as opposed to the static text of "PowerDNS Admin."
- Various user interface features were updated to correct minor formatting issues such as a lack of proper text wrapping for the activity details modal.
- Various areas of documentation were updated to be more reliable as well as including some missing information. This is still a work in progress.
- The project WIKI was moved into standard markdown documentation files under `docs/wiki` as opposed to using the GitHub WIKI feature which will make it easier for contributors to provide updates via PRs.

### Features
- A CAPTCHA feature has been added to the registration form which can be controlled through the use of environment variables and application settings. This feature is now enabled by default.
- A session storage setting has been added through the use of environment variables and supports multiple mediums such as database and file system. The default is configured to use the database which **will result in the "sessions" table being automatically created!**
- A configuration setting has been added for controlling the OIDC OAuth Metadata URL for authentication.
- A search function was added for IDN searches.

### Bug Fixes
- The auto-PTR record logic has been updated to remove, then add records in order to address scenarios that would create undesirable record changes that didn't fit logical expectations.
- Fixed issue where OTP_FORCE setting was being applied to OAuth flows which was not appropriate.
- Many other minor bug fixes were made but there is currently a lot of lacking documentation available to make documenting these fixes here a bit easier.

### Security Fixes
- Most dependencies have been updated to their latest or near-latest versions.

As the project gets back on track, so will it's organization which should result in more frequent minor and patch releases with greater detail in release notes. Thank you again for being a PDA user!

<hr /><em>This discussion was created from the release <a href='https://github.com/PowerDNS-Admin/PowerDNS-Admin/releases/tag/v0.4.0'>v0.4.0</a>.</em>